Project 3 Proposal: Data Engineering Track
Members: Shannon Hoffman, Elisabeth Jansen, Brittany Thomas, Jose Vela

Data Source: https://www.transtats.bts.gov/OT_Delay/OT_DelayCause1.asp?20=E
"Bureau of Transportation Statistics"


Below is a rough outline of the steps we will take to explore the flight delay data from the above data source. During data exploration, we will identify a new library to include in the project. Our steps, analysis and conclusions will be presented during the class group presentations. 

Step 1: download data between Jan 2023 - Dec 2023 as csv file: "2023_data.csv"
Step 2: read "2023_data.csv" into pandas to facilitate cleaning
Step 3: clean data
- eliminate columns and/or rows that are unnecessary
- explore any values that are not importing correctly
- determine if null values are valuable or should be eliminated
- other (e.g. rename columns, combine columns, separate columns, create new columns - delay cts as % of total)

Step 4: create new database in pgAdmin (SQL) called "2023_flight_data"
Step 5: import csv file
Step 6: create ERD
Step 7: use Sql Alchemy to read data from SQL database in Pandas dataframes
Step 8: create tables to answer exploratory data questions (see below) calling on data from the SQL database (see https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/how-to-use-sql-in-pandas-using-pandasql-queries)
Step 9: refine ERD showing the relationships between the tables created
Step 10: create visualizations/perform calculations/analyze data related to the questions below
Step 11: present data

Exploratory Data Questions:
Which carrier has the most delays ass'd with security?
What month is associated with the most weather delays?
There are more delays associated with weather in Seattle than in Austin.
Rank the seasons in terms of highest to lowest delays. 
Rank airports with highest to lowest delays (and based on weather, late crew, security, etc).
Rank airlines with highest to lowest delays.
- look at top 5 airlines with delays and do further in depth analysis (average time delay vs number of delays)
% of flights delayed by region of country - heat map


